---
# You don't need to edit this file, it's empty on purpose.
# Edit theme's home layout instead if you wanna make some changes
# See: https://jekyllrb.com/docs/themes/#overriding-theme-defaults
layout: single
author_profile: true
---
- **Theoretical physics**: We design neuro-symbolic algorithms that can perform symbolic manipulation and arrive at novel solutions to hard computational problems in theoretical physics. For instance, to design [new phenomenological models](https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.08080). We are in the process of significantly expanding this research direction over the coming years.
- **Statistical methods in particle physics and astrophysics**: Raw data from experiments or observatories are complex and high dimensional. We design neural simulation-based inference techniques to rapidly analyse these data without having to make simplifying assumptions that have been at the core of traditional statistical inference paradigms. To deploy such powerful algorithms, one also needs to ensure their robustness and reliability. We therefore design practical uncertainty quantification to address challenges of trustworthiness. We are also interested in combining the advantages of Bayesian and frequentist concepts and apply them across domains. A [practical design](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/1361-6633/add370) of such techniques has recently transformed [Higgs studies](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/1361-6633/adcd9a) at the Large Hadron Collider, with many more developments now under way. These methods have also shown promise in the studying the interior of [neutron stars](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/1475-7516/2024/09/009). On the core statistics side, we are also studying alternatives to the likelihood ratio test that could transform both measurements and searches for new phenomena across experiments.

We engage in cross-disciplinary collaborations and welcome students from across academic backgrounds. Most projects in the group involve computational tools and AI/ML, so students with strong skills or interest in these areas will find a natural fit here. We are also interested in collaborations in the history of science and scientific outreach. Prof. Ghosh is invested in creating a comfortable work environment for a diverse team. This includes students who have taken career breaks or followed non-traditional career paths and students from across socio-economic backgrounds and genders.
